Hi, guys, welcome to this lesson.
This lesson is about the IWC client VPN, so it is exactly what it sounds like.
This is a way that you can connect your client computer to the IWC data center to a VPC via a VPN connection.
So a virtual private network connection.
So let's say you've got a computer which is Windows or Mac or Linux.
You're able to set up a client connection from there into a VPC, and that means you're then able to
communicate with resources in that PPC.
So you might be able to connect to an easy to instance directly using private IP addresses.
Now, of course, it's a virtual private network, so that does mean that it's encrypted as well.
Ends end.
So let's look at how you set them up.
So here we have a region in that region, we have a VPC with a couple of subnets.
Now we create a VPN endpoints and the VPN endpoint is associated with subnets.
So the client VPN network interfaces are created in the subnet, and that is the method by which the
VPN connection is then able to communicate with resources in the subnets because there is an association
between this network adapter that's provisioned into the subnet and the VPN endpoint.
We then have the client computer and that's going to be running some VPN software.
The VPN software is not IWC software, so you need to choose one of the available options.
There's lots of free options in the hands on.
In the next lesson, we're going to use OpenVPN.
The client software will establish a connection with the VPN endpoint over SSL, TLS support for for
free, and that's going to be via the internet.
The VPN endpoint will actually perform source network address translation from the side, a block that's
associated with the VPN client to the side to block that's associated with the VPC.
And on the client side, if you look at your routes able, you can run a command on windows, which
is route print, and you would then see your route table and you'd be able to see that you have a destination
for the site, a block of the VPC and a gateway which is pointing at the VPN endpoints.
So that's the theory behind how a client VPN works.
Again, this is an encrypted connection over the internet from your computer, so your computer is then
able to communicate using private IP addresses over to your instances in your subnet within your VPNs.